In this video we are going to write up
the delete button of our,
so if we go ahead and click on Delete,
it's gonna ask us if we wanna delete it.
If we press OK, it's going to remove it
from that page and then ideally when we hit Pagination,
it's gonna refetch that query
and then also update our pagination
that we only have one page
and I'll remove that.
Good, so let's open up our item.js component
and we have this button right here called Delete.
We're gonna turn that into its own component
so we can abstract away the logic
and use that button wherever it is
we want on the page,
so I'll make a new component called Deleteitem.js.
Gotta scaffold out a React component.
And I'm going to remove that item.
And for now, let's just give ourselves a button,
so that's Delete Item.
We'll go into our item.js and import that.
We'll go down here.
Give ourselves the DeleteItem.
Actually, what we could do here
is so that you can, instead of hard coding
the text Delete Item
because you really could put anything that you want
inside of there, let's actually make it a component
like this and in here we'll say Delete This Item
and we'll go in here
and you can just replace that with this.props.children
and that should do it.
Let's go to our home page here
and we see that our Delete Item button is showing up.
Awesome, so we're gonna flip over to our backend
and start writing the process for that,
so go to Go To Pink and open up your schema.
We need a new mutation that's going to be called deleteItem.
That takes in an ID
which has the type of ID.
It's going to return an item.
You could also create a new type
called like success message
and return that with a strong with a message
but in our case, let's just keep it with returning an item.
Then we want to code up a resolver for that,
so we'll go into the mutation.js.
Make a new one down here.
Parent, args, ctx, info
and we want to make a where variable
because we're gonna be reusing this a couple times
and we're gonna actually set this up
assuming that we're gonna have authentication
in just a bit, so I'll say const where
is equal to the ID is equal to args.id.
Then first thing we need to do
is find the item, step one.
Two, check if they own that item
or have the permissions.
And three, delete it.
So, the reason why we find the item
before we go ahead and delete it
is because we are going to be querying the item first
to check if the person deleting it
either owns it or the person deleting it
has permissions to delete any item
like you're an administrator on the site.
So, we'll say const item is equal to await,
so we did await, let's change this over to async,
we can take the context.database.query.item
and we're gonna search for an item
and we're just gonna pass the where that we created.
Now, what's interesting about this
is that this query right here,
usually we just pass in info
and by passing in info,
it's going to take any of the query from the front end,
let me open up UPDATE_ITEM that we just did.
It's gonna take in the query
and request that these fields come back.
However, sometimes we have an intermediary,
we have to perform a second query
and in that case, the info doesn't get passed here
but we're just gonna manually pass a query ourselves,
a GraphQL query, so I'm gonna use back ticks here,
it doesn't matter which quotes you use
and we specifically want to ask it for the ID
and the title of that specific,
so this is just raw GraphQL that we're passing in here
and it will parse it for us.
In the future we're gonna come back
and ask for the user and the ID of the user
but in this case, we're not gonna have users just yet
so we can't have that.
Second, check if we own it, TODO
and then third, delete it,
we return ctx.db.mutation.deleteItem,
we pass our where
and our info.
Looks like we've got our schema and our resolver set up.
Let's flip over to the front end now.
Go back to Deleteitem.js.
And we're gonna import a couple things up here,
so import Mutation from react-apollo.
We're gonna import gql from graphql-tag.
Then we'll go here and write our query
or our mutation, DELETE_ITEM_MUTATION,
so mutation, and I'm going to delete the item,
the ID is equal to the ID.
And we're just gonna ask for the ID of the item back
just so we can have something returned
and know that is actually deleted.
Good, now we wanna take this button here
and wrap it in a mutation component,
so I'll take a mutation component,
put the button inside of that.
Mutation takes a couple things.
First, we need the extra mutation itself.
And then we also need to pass some variables,
so how do we know which item we're actually deleting?
Well, we don't right now,
so we have to pass it in,
so we'll go back to item.js
and we'll pass that in.
We'll say the ID of the item that this button
can remove is the item.id
and then we'll just go into here
and say this.props.id
is the name of the variable.
We also wanna do structure and error
because we wanna tell the user if there's an error.
Specifically you don't own this item,
you can't delete it.
And we will change those curlys to parentheses
and put the button inside here.
And this is button is gonna have an onClick handler
where we run a little function inside of here
and we'll just run a confirm, say are you sure you want
to delete this thing?
So, we'll say if confirm, sure you want to delete this?
Then we simply just run the deleteItem function
that was passed in via our mutation,
give it an all save,
little bit of an error here.
Oh, semicolon.
Let's go ahead and try delete it.
Delete this item.
Are you sure you wanna delete it?
OK.
And nothing happened but I think it worked
and the way you can tell if it worked
is if you give it a refresh
and you see that test is gone.
So, this is where we get into interface updates
in Apollo because that item
is going to be deleted on the backend
but it's not gonna be deleted in the cache,
so if you actually wanna update the cache
and you wanna remove it from the page,
you have to manually do that yourselves
or there's kind of like two options here.
The first option is that we could refetch this entire query
on the home page
and that will manually hit the backend
for a list of items and come back with an updated version.
That's a good option.
However, sometimes you just want to remove one
of those items from the page
and that's exactly what we wanna do here,
so that's done via an update function.
The way we would do that is we have our mutation,
argument for mutation,
we have our variables argument here
and then we have a third one
that's called update
and I'm just gonna say this.update
and we'll shell that off to a separate one
and go here and say update
is equal to a function and Apollo will give you two things
when the update happens.
It'll give you access to the cache
which is the, here, let's take a quick look
what is the cache, it's this, Apollo,
go into the cache and it's all of the items
that it actually has.
And then it will also give you the payload
or the data that has come back
from the item that got deleted
and here we can just like manually update
the cache on the client so it matches the server.
Now, there's a number of steps we need to do here,
so first, we are going to read the cache
for the items we want,
so what items do we need to read?
We need to read these four items here
and unfortunately you can't just reach directly
into the cache and delete one,
you actually have to use a GraphQL query
to read the items from the cache
and have the ability to write back into the cache,
so we need to ask ourselves,
what is the query that was used to get these items
onto the page in the first place
and if you open up our items.js,
you'll know that we use the ALL_ITEMS query
and route it here, so the reason why we exported it
and if you haven't done this, please make sure you have,
we exported this ALL_ITEMS query, that's right here
is so that we can import it
into here, so let's say import ITEMS_QUERY
from sibling Items.JavaScript.
Then we can go back to our update here
and we'll say const data is equal to the cache.readQuery
and you can specify the query that you want
which is ALL_ITEMS_QUERY
and let's actually just go ahead
and console.log that data to see what we're working with.
So, I'm gonna give it a quick refresh,
go to console here,
I'm gonna delete an item, click OK
and you see that that query gives us access
to all four items that are currently on the page
for that cache.
So, we got one, two, three, four,
so what we're gonna do
is we're going step two,
filter the deleted item out of the page.
Data.items is equal to data.items.filter
and we're just gonna loop over every single item
and only include it if it doesn't match the deleted one,
so item.id is not equal to the payload.data.
And actually I don't know what the name of it is,
so let's actually go back here
and console.log the payload
and let's just comment that out
and we'll try delete another one.
Now, you can't try delete this one again
'cause I just did that
and if you try to do it, it's gonna error out
because it's actually gone,
so I'm gonna refresh the page.
I'm running out of stuff,
I might have to make some new items pretty soon.
And delete this item.
There we go, so the payload
that we get is the second thing
and that's this right here
and then inside of that
you have the data and then we have the deleteItem.
That's how we know what is actually called.
So, we'll bring this back,
data.items equals itself,
filtered out for deleteItem.id.
Then we will put the items back.
We'll say cache.writeQuery
and the query is going to be the ALL_ITEMS_QUERY again
and then the second argument
is just going to be data is equal to data
but you can remove the second data there
and just say we're passing it,
so you see how we updated the data
that we have here and that should write itself
to the query, so give that a save.
Gonna refresh.
Only got one more item or two more items here.
I'm gonna delete it, click OK.
Once it comes back from the database,
it actually removes it from the page
and then let's, why not, let's go ahead
and delete all of them.
Now they're all gone.
And so, that is it, we have our delete items,
I just deleted all of mine,
so you might have to go ahead and add three
or four new items.
Don't had too, too many
because we are going to have to clear 'em out once more
before we create our users.
So, I'll see you in the next video.